<a name="readme-top"></a>

<!-- Title -->
<div align="center">
<h3 align="center">Display Frequency & Resistance on LCD</h3>

  <p align="center">
    A Hands-On Approach to Microcontroller-Based Systems
  </p>
</div>


<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details>
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li>
      <a href="#overview">Overview</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#built-with">Built With</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li>
      <a href="#design-solution">Design Solution</a>
      <ul>
        <li><a href="#external-trigger--timer-2">External Trigger & Timer 2</a></li>
        <li><a href="#analog-to-digital-converter">Analog to Digital Converter</a></li>
        <li><a href="#digital-to-analog-converter">Digital to Analog Converter</a></li>
        <li><a href="#spi--lcd">SPI & LCD</a></li>
        <li><a href="#gpio">GPIO</a></li>
        <li><a href="#main">Main</a></li>
        <li><a href="#circuitry--wiring">Circuitry & Wiring</a></li>
      </ul>
    </li>
    <li><a href="#testing--results">Testing & Results</a></li>
    <li><a href="#discussion">Discussion</a></li>
    <li><a href="#limitations-and-potential-improvements">Limitations and Potential Improvements</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>



<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## Overview

The implementation involves designing an embedded system using an STM32F051 microcontroller. The project requires incorporating several hardware components, both internal and external. A potentiometer is utilized to manage the voltage directed to an optocoupler, which subsequently adjusts the frequency generated by a 555 timer. This voltage is passed through an ADC and DAC, even though it may seem redundant. Additionally, an SPI interface is configured to facilitate data transmission to an LCD screen that displays frequency and resistance values. The microcontroller communicates with external peripherals through GPIO pins, which are configured using a C program.

The task is broken down into several parts, each addressing the setup and configuration of individual components before their integration. Initial steps include configuring the EXTI controller and TIM2 general-purpose timer. Subsequently, the ADC is configured to measure the potentiometer voltage, the DAC converts the ADC value back to analog voltage, and this voltage powers the optocoupler to regulate the 555 timer's frequency. The 555 timer's output is connected to an external interrupt to measure the signal's frequency. The final part involves displaying frequency and resistance on an LCD screen, with SPI communication used to transfer data from the microcontroller to the display.

Each section covers specific details on setting up and utilizing various components, from initializing timers and handling interrupts to configuring the ADC and DAC for analog-to-digital and digital-to-analog conversions. Additionally, the setup of SPI communication to control the LCD is detailed, ensuring accurate data display. By addressing each component's configuration and integration into the overall system, the process provides a comprehensive understanding of embedded system design and implementation.

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


### Built With

* C
* STM32f051 MCU

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


<!-- DESIGN SOLUTION -->
## Design Solution

### External Trigger & Timer 2



### Analog to Digital Converter



### Digital to Analog Converter



### SPI & LCD



### GPIO



### Main



### Circuitry & Wiring



<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- TESTING & RESULTS -->
## Testing & Results



<!-- DISCUSSION -->
## Discussion



<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>

<!-- LIMITATIONS & POTENTIAL IMPROVEMENTS -->
## Limitations and Potential Improvements



<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>


<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

Salem Ait Ami - [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/salemaitami/) - [salemaitami@uvic.ca](salemaitami@uvic.ca)

<p align="right">(<a href="#readme-top">back to top</a>)</p>



<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
[breadboard]: images/breadboard.png
[circuit-diagram]: images/circuit_diagram.png
[prv]: images/prv_setup_hardware.png
[includes]: images/includes.png
[main]: images/maintls.png
[task1]: images/task1.png
[task2]: images/task2.png
[task3]: images/task3.png
[task4]: images/task4.png
